Collector telemetry lifecycle (#5092)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/docs/collector/internal-telemetry.md

| `rpc_server_response_size`        | Measures the size of RPC response messages (uncompressed).                                | Histogram |
| `rpc_server_responses_per_rpc`    | Measures the number of messages sent per RPC. Should be 1 for all non-streaming RPCs.     | Histogram |

> ### Telemetry lifecycle

Reviewer: Hmm, what about clarifying the kind of lifecycle? Also, IMHO it isn't a cycle per se, it's a maturity path. Maybe just drop "lifecycle"?

The official terminology from https://github.com/open-telemetry/oteps/blob/main/text/0232-maturity-of-otel.md#maturity-levels is "maturity levels":

So, how about this:

```suggestion
### Telemetry maturity levels
```

Btw, should this instead be the following instead?

```suggestion
### Signal maturity levels
```

Author: I wouldn't want to use Signal here as it may be confused with the signals that the collector receives/processes/exports

#### Tracing

> Tracing instrumentation is still under active development, and may change in a variety of ways. This includes span names, attached attributes, instrumented endpoints, etc. Until this feature graduates to stable, there are no guarantees of backwards compatibility for tracing instrumentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tracing instrumentation is still under active development, and changes might be made to span names, attached attributes, instrumented endpoints, or other aspects of the telemetry. Until this feature graduates to stable, there are no guarantees of backwards compatibility for tracing instrumentation.
```

#### Metrics

> The lifecycle of metrics in the Collector follows the following cycle, each stage is documented below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Collector's metrics follow a four-stage lifecycle:
```

> Alpha metric → Stable metric → Deprecated metric → Deleted metric

##### Alpha

Alpha metrics have no stability guarantees. These metrics can be modified or deleted at any time.

##### Stable

Stable metrics are guaranteed to not change. This means:

> * A stable metric without a deprecated signature will not be deleted or renamed
> * A stable metric's type and attributes will not be modified

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A stable metric without a deprecated signature will not be deleted or renamed.
- A stable metric's type and attributes will not be modified.
```

##### Deprecated

> Deprecated metrics are slated for deletion, but are still available for use. These metrics include an annotation about the version in which they became deprecated. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Deprecated metrics are slated for deletion but are still available for use. These metrics include an annotation about the version in which they became deprecated. For example:
```

>     Before deprecation
> 
>     # HELP some_counter this counts things
>     # TYPE some_counter counter
>     otelcol_exporter_queue_size 0
> 
>     After deprecation
> 
>     # HELP some_counter (Deprecated since 1.15.0) this counts things
>     # TYPE some_counter counter
>     some_counter 0

Reviewer 2: This should help with the linter issue.

```suggestion
```sh
Before deprecation

# HELP some_counter this counts things
# TYPE some_counter counter
otelcol_exporter_queue_size 0

After deprecation

# HELP some_counter (Deprecated since 1.15.0) this counts things
# TYPE some_counter counter
some_counter 0
```
```

Reviewer: If you do you fenced code notation, the language should be something other than `sh` IMHO. Maybe just `text`?

Also, is it meant to be all in a code block? Could it instead be what is shown below:

---

Before deprecation:

```text
# HELP some_counter this counts things
# TYPE some_counter counter
otelcol_exporter_queue_size 0
```

After deprecation:

```text	
# HELP some_counter (Deprecated since 1.15.0) this counts things
# TYPE some_counter counter
some_counter 0
```

##### Deleted

Deleted metrics are no longer published and cannot be used.

#### Logs

> Individual log entries and their formatting may change from one release to the next, there are no stability guarantees at this time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Individual log entries and their formatting might change from one release to the next. There are no stability guarantees at this time.
```

| `rpc_server_response_size`        | Measures the size of RPC response messages (uncompressed).                                | Histogram |
| `rpc_server_responses_per_rpc`    | Measures the number of messages sent per RPC. Should be 1 for all non-streaming RPCs.     | Histogram |

### Telemetry maturity levels

> #### Tracing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Traces
```

Tracing instrumentation is still under active development, and changes might be made to span names, attached attributes, instrumented endpoints, or other aspects of the telemetry. Until this feature graduates to stable, there are no guarantees of backwards compatibility for tracing instrumentation.

#### Metrics

The Collector's metrics follow a four-stage lifecycle:

> > Alpha metric → Stable metric → Deprecated metric → Deleted metric

Reviewer 3: How does a user identify the stage in which a metric is at?

Author: This could be included in the documentation generated for each metric via the metadata file, wdyt?

Reviewer 3: Yeah that makes sense. I would also like to have the stage in the metrics description

Author: Would you expect to see all the stages in the description or would it be enough to include it only in the deprecation stage? I wouldn't want to end up sending unnecessary prefixes for every metric at every stage.... maybe any stage that isn't stable?

Reviewer 3: Only on those that are not stable IMO

Author: Opened a draft PR to start work on this here: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/pull/11160

##### Alpha

Alpha metrics have no stability guarantees. These metrics can be modified or deleted at any time.

##### Stable

Stable metrics are guaranteed to not change. This means:

- A stable metric without a deprecated signature will not be deleted or renamed.
- A stable metric's type and attributes will not be modified.

##### Deprecated

> Deprecated metrics are slated for deletion but are still available for use. These metrics include an annotation about the version in which they became deprecated. For example:

Author: ```suggestion
Deprecated metrics are slated for deletion but are still available for use. The description of these metrics include an annotation about the version in which they became deprecated. For example:
```

Before deprecation:

```sh

> # HELP otelcol_exporter_queue_size this counts things

Reviewer 4: Do we only consider Prometheus metrics or is there also a convention we want if deprecating an Otel metric?

Author: I'd expect the description of the metric to include a note about deprecation. The description will be rendered differently based on the exporter configured
